---
title: "Interoperability performance evaluation for discrete event simulation models: A step towards multi-level data exchange"
collection: publications
category: conferences
permalink: /publication/CA03
excerpt: 'This paper is about fixing template issue #693.'
date: 2024-10-15
venue: 'Procedia CIRP'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procir.2024.06.007'
citation: 'Zhao, J., Aghezzaf, E. H., & Cottyn, J. (2024). Interoperability performance evaluation for discrete event simulation models: A step towards multi-level data exchange. Procedia CIRP, 128, 72-77.'
---
According to use scenarios, 3D-based virtual commissioning can be divided into three levels: machine, cell and plant. As virtual commissioning at each level focuses on different contents, corresponding applications are developed in different data models. The resulting 3D emulation and simulation models are thus not easily exchangeable or reusable. At machine level, a physics-based model is used to conduct emulation. While at plant level discrete event simulation models are quite common. A framework for exchanging 3D emulation and simulation models between software at different levels would stimulate model reuse and lower the effort for model creation. To date, no interoperability performance evaluation for discrete event simulation models has been presented. This paper investigates industrial standards and related work on discrete event model generation and data exchange. The interoperability performance of discrete event simulation tools is evaluated by the example case of exchanging models between two commercial tools (i.e., FlexSim and Visual Components) via Core Manufacturing Simulation Data and AutomationML. The result shows the former converts 7% more attributes than the latter. Furthermore, an element-based comparison is conducted to reveal overlaps and assess the potential of (partial) model reuse during the data exchange between 3D emulation and simulation models.
