---
title: "An AutomationML extension towards interoperability of 3D virtual commissioning software applications"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2009-10-01-paper-title-number-1
excerpt: 'This paper is about the number 1. The number 2 is left for future work.'
date: 2023-12-15
venue: 'International Journal of Computer Integrated Manufacturing'
#slidesurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/slides1.pdf'
paperurl: 'https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/0951192X.2023.2294443'
citation: 'Zhao, J., Aghezzaf, E. H., & Cottyn, J. (2024). An AutomationML extension towards interoperability of 3D virtual commissioning software applications. International Journal of Computer Integrated Manufacturing, 37(10-11), 1194-1213.'
---
To achieve interoperability between different 3D virtual commissioning software, a generic virtual commissioning data model is required. AutomationML is a standard neutral format for interoperability in the engineering phase. However, the current AutomationML standard is not sufficient for full-scope 3D-based virtual commissioning data exchange, as attributes and modeling method of 3D virtual commissioning-related sensors, actuators and signal connections are not standardized in AutomationML. To fill this gap, the authors suggest extending AutomationML for interoperability in 3D virtual commissioning. In this paper, a case-driven iterative approach is introduced to evolve towards an AutomationML extension. This extension is gradually developed by taking the union of all virtual commissioning-related functions and attributes of 3D virtual commissioning software. During the iteration, naming rules are applied when a new attribute is added to the extension. With this approach, an initial AutomationML extension is created by implementing a first iteration. The interoperability performance of this extension is subsequently evaluated by conducting data exchange of a representative set of 3D emulation models between two 3D virtual commissioning software, namely Siemens NX and Visual Components, via self-developed “Import” and “Export” plug-ins. It shows that AutomationML extension-based data exchange converts 70% more attributes than that only based on AutomationML.
